[//]: # ((C) Copyright 2021 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP)

[//]: # (Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a)
[//]: # (copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),)
[//]: # (to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation)
[//]: # (the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,)
[//]: # (and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the)
[//]: # (Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:)

[//]: # (The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included)
[//]: # (in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.)

[//]: # (THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR)
[//]: # (IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,)
[//]: # (FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL)
[//]: # (THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR)
[//]: # (OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,)
[//]: # (ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR)
[//]: # (OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.)

## About System Admin Toolkit (SAT)

The System Admin Toolkit (SAT) is designed to assist administrators with common tasks, such as troubleshooting and
querying information about the HPE Cray EX System and its components, system boot and shutdown, and replacing hardware
components.

SAT offers a command line utility which uses subcommands. There are similarities between SAT commands and xt commands
used on the Cray XC platform. For more information on SAT commands, see [System Admin Toolkit Command Overview](#system-admin-toolkit-command-overview).

Six Kibana Dashboards are included with SAT. They provide organized output for system health information.

- [AER Kibana Dashboard](#aer-kibana-dashboard)
- [ATOM Kibana Dashboard](#atom-kibana-dashboard)
- [Heartbeat Kibana Dashboard](#heartbeat-kibana-dashboard)
- [Kernel Kibana Dashboard](#kernel-kibana-dashboard)
- [MCE Kibana Dashboard](#mce-kibana-dashboard)
- [Rasdaemon Kibana Dashboard](#rasdaemon-kibana-dashboard)

Four Grafana Dashboards are included with SAT. They display messages that are generated by the HSN (High Speed Network) and
are reported through Redfish.

- [Grafana Fabric Congestion Dashboard](#grafana-fabric-congestion-dashboard)
- [Grafana Fabric Errors Dashboard](#grafana-fabric-errors-dashboard)
- [Grafana Fabric Port State Dashboard](#grafana-fabric-port-state-dashboard)
- [Grafana Fabric RFC3635 Dashboard](#grafana-fabric-rfc3635-dashboard)

SAT is installed as a separate product as part of the HPE Cray EX System base installation.
